---
title: "Advent of Code 2024"
excerpt: "I discovered AOC quite late in my career. I feel it's more like something one does when it's in college, my first participation was in 2023, and 2024 was my second. The first time I was very into it and I had a lot of fun, the second time I just found challenges to be repetitive, very similar to the year before but with a little bit different of a story."
author: "Miguel Liezun"
tags: programming,python,code,algorithms,advent,aoc
---

# Advent of Code 2024

I discovered AOC quite late in my career. I feel it's more like something one does when it's in college, my first participation was in 2023, and 2024 was my second. The first time I was very into it and I had a lot of fun, the second time I just found challenges to be repetitive, very similar to the year before but with a little bit different of a story.

## What happened in 2024?

I did a lot of things in 2024, like moving to Paris, France. And I have also moved apartments within Paris. During December 2024 I was still adapting to life and responsibilities in Paris, so I felt like I didn't have much time to dedicate to AOC.

The first time I did it I was in a much more comfortable and I could dedicate as many hours as I wanted to solve a problem. Even do brute forcing and let it run for hours.

In December 2024 I didn't have much time, and every minute that I was spending in AOC I felt like it was being wasted. That I could be out hanging out, doing something fun, visiting some place new or just meeting with people.

## I feel like is a game for kids

It's ok, I discovered really late and I wanted to play it at least once.

I have a feeling that if I was in college and found out about it I would have played it every year.

But now, juggling work and life, trying to participate in AOC is just not worth it.

There's a lot more things that I'd rather be doing/building than spending time in front of the computer solving christmas themed puzzles.

December is also a month in which you have many festivities, and have to plan for them, like visiting family and friends on Christmas, going on a trip for New Year's or just decorating your house. Those things are a lot more work, and in my opinion way more fun.

Also, if you're fresh out of college and you mention participating in AOC I feel like it would sound cool and could get you hired. If you're an experienced software engineer it just doesn't matter.

## Bye bye

Advent of Code is really cool. But I think it's just not for me anymore.

It's ok to let things go when you recognize that they don't bring much value to your life anymore.

